# ForestLanscapes
## NAS server organization project, this page is meant to document the file organization as well as the scripts for data processing

### Permisions

STRI-Gamboa-ForestLandscapesFull has read/write access to both directories
Users to obtain read/write access to both directories: 

- garciamil@si.edu
- solanom@si.edu
- hernandezma3@si.edu
- vasquezv@si.edu
- gomezlf@si.edu

STRI-Gamboa-ForestLandscapesUsers has read access to the Raw directory and read/write access to the products directory.
Users to obtain read access to LandscapeRaw, and read/write access to LandscapeProducts: 

- mullerh@si.edu
- williamsoncg@si.edu
- cushmank@si.edu
- mitchellme@si.edu
- ramosp@si.edu
- cannonpg@si.edu



### Conventions
General conventions for ./LandscapeRaw/drone/year
The folder contains all flight missions for the Forest carbon lab. subfolder with the year are mantained for easier classification.
Each flight mission within each year follows the following convention SITE/plot/year/month/day/DRONE/mission.
		1. Years are fixed at 4 digits, months 2 digits and days 2 digits.
		2. Mission is optional for fligths covering same areaH for different purposes.
		3. Day corresponds to the last day of data collection. if the flights took place between september 3 and september 7. the folder will have the day 07
For example:
- BCI_50ha_2023_02_28_P4P follows the convention. 
- BCI_whole_2023_03_18_EBEE_jacaranda follows the convention

Inside each of mission folder there is 2 subdirectories that are created automatically by the server. 
- Images subdirectory with capital I and plural -s suffix contains the images pertaining to the actual mission. 
- The images directory can be subdivided into multiple dates, each contianing only the pictures from that date for example:
			1. 2022_03_26
			2. 2023_03_27
- The folder Images_extra contains all the pictures non-related to the flight actual mission for example panoramics or test images.


### Files directory
The files directory is generated by get_file_paths.py in the LandscapeScripts folder. The scripts requires the libraries Pandas and Os for python. The .bat file calls the script and python.exe which has the libraries installed. It output a filepaths.csv in the root directory with the following columns:
- server: The NAS server ID
- partition: the allocated partition for the ForestLandscapes project
- type: Raw, Proccessed/Product script or root. The root files are global.
- source: It can be Drone data, airbone lidar data, Mobile laser scanner, terrestrial laser scanner.
- year: year in which the data was collected
- mission: encompasses SITE/plot/year/month/day/DRONE/mission
- product: the type of product, raw images, extra images, orthomosaics, point clouds etc
- file: the file with an extension that contains that contains the actual data

### Files with extensions conventions
- All orthomosaics are stored as .tif or Geotiffs with the following convention: SITE/plot/year/month/day/denomination. 
    List of denominations:
        - orthomosaic: standard medium quality orthomosaic
        - meshortho: orthomosaic generated from mesh or 3D model
        - dsm: digital surface model
        - orig: as processed in the original Drobo unit
- 
### ForestLandscapes file structure
.
└── LandscapeRaw/
    ├── Drone/
    │   ├── BCI_50ha/
    │   │   └── 2023/
    │   │       └── 2023_01_30_BCI_50ha_P4P/
    │   │           ├── Images
    │   │           ├── Images_Extra
    │   │           ├── Telemetry
    │   │           └── Zarchive
    │   ├── BCI_AVA/
    │   ├── BCI_whole/
    │   └── DroneFlights.xlsx
    └── MLS
